Hi, it's Alan and Brent and we're here again for the night time.
Number nine, number nine, number nine.
Walking out of the last podcast, I was thinking that, oh, and I'm glad you remembered.
Speaking of the last podcast, it's not posted yet. So we're probably going to post eight and nine
fairly close to each other. That sure.
Sometimes it's still on average every two weeks. It's been pretty good. And it takes
take some time to go through and kind of get it already and make the edits.
And, you know, my family left town. Yep.
I've been, you know, I should be like goofing off, screwing around,
but I've been working a whole, whole lot. Long, long days.
It's interesting how when your family goes out of town,
you no longer have an excuse to avoid doing work.
Well, I totally, I totally wanted to have what is commonly known as short timer syndrome.
Knowing I was going to be not at work for two months, I thought I'm going to ease into that
because and to make it worse, my boss is on vacation this week.
So I could totally have taken an extra week off.
Yeah. But but instead what's happening is well, I'm guessing. Let me guess.
Yes. Holy crap.
Alan's gone. How do we compress all this shit that we wanted him to do over the next two
months into one week? No, no, no, actually that wasn't it at all.
It's me being kind of stupid, but not stupid. I there was a project needed to be done.
And I thought I can take care of this because I can get it.
We'll get it done before I go. It's doesn't everybody else can focus on their day job.
It's it's contained. I can do it by myself.
And then the project turned to be much more complicated than I thought it was going to be.
And what what it is is I've learned a lot. Brent some time ago asked me how I would interview
people for my team. You know, if I wanted to, you know, what qualities you look for if
you're building an engineering team. And one of the big things is just people that can learn new
things. And that's kind of my, you know, one of my powers is like, here's something I know
nothing about, but I'm happy to go do it because I can figure stuff out pretty well.
And what it was is my team uses Git for source control and it's Git hosted in Microsoft team
Foundation server. And we have a dozen or so repos that make up our product.
Why do you use Git and not TFS itself?
Lots of reasons. I'll tell you the two biggest ones why we use Git.
And one that has been a huge advantage to me.
Git is actually probably the biggest one is I'm gonna talk about the biggest one.
Cause I don't know all the details behind all the decisions, but stack overflow.com
is the best source of information for Git ever, everything ever and into have gotten partial
answers or not complete answers from stack overflow. There just aren't as many because
there's so many people using it. And so it's really great. It's nice to use something that
a big chunk of the software engineering world is working with.
So anyway, so I think that's probably a good reason to use it. And then, uh,
so what you're saying is, is there's a large knowledge sharing community around this.
And then somewhere farther up the chain, there's a move to get our entire organization
larger than my group moved over to get eventually. And we're kind of, uh,
making the pilot, the pilot move there.
Does, does Dev Dev know about this?
Yes. Dev Dev is worth dev.
Dev Dev thing to know is, uh, team foundation server has native get support in it.
It supports source control, either via a team that they're old, whatever the old source
controls called or Git. It works really well.
Awesome. So, so I didn't know about this feature. So what they're saying is that
they have an extensibility model is like, Hey, our, our, we want to be the,
the broker between common developer activities.
And the thing to remember with Git is, Git is, um, distributed version control.
So everybody has a copy of the repo. I can't go and explain all the details of Git now. So it's,
you can do pretty much everything without pinging the server. You only ping the server when you
want to update your, uh, current files or to push what you have to the server.
You can change branches. You can do, you can, uh, do pretty much everything else just locally.
So the offline experience is fantastic.
Is there any issue? Does that mean they have to have a clone of the, the depot on every box?
Yeah. Okay. So, so we, so like 70 petabytes,
um, the, it will never go there because nobody, we, nobody is stupid enough to check in binaries
to get its source control. Okay. Not, not, not binary control.
Cause binaries are really crazy there. Anyway, not a Git, not a Git lesson today.
We're going to stop there. We wanted to move from one, uh,
TFS hosted Git to another server with, uh, actually for source control itself, very, very easy.
Um, it's, it's amazing how easy it is because distributed how easy it is to move where it's
hosted. Um, I can get everything moved over. It doesn't even look like I touched it, but it's,
so my name doesn't show up like, you know, Alan touched everything, you know, in our traditional,
uh, source controls, source control systems have used at Microsoft.
If the person with the most check-ins, it's almost always the guy in the, uh,
in the, in the build team who's doing all the integrations. But the thing I loved about Git is
I can do all this moving around and keeping things up to date. My name doesn't show up because I'm
just shuffling things around. History goes with it, but I'm, I have no part of it. Anyway,
that's cool. So source control move is easy, but, um, is that, is this the project that you've
been working on? Yeah. Okay. So anyway, that part's easy, but we had also hooked up a bunch of,
here's where it gets a little complicated and a little bit more often to the weeds.
We had, uh, we used the TFS builds as well. So our code is built for us in the cloud,
but not really in the cloud because we hooked it up to it on premise and build controller,
which you can do. Now we're getting deeper into the weeds and, uh, a lot, our unit tests
actually run for all our components run right after build right now. Cause we're starting up
and this will be in the longterm working this way, but they run on that server. Okay. And I,
there was some great documentation, how to set up a new build controller. Cause I had to set
up a new build controller and the documentation was about 90% done yet deemed complete. So I
found things like, Oh, I got to install this on the server. Oh, and I found, um, this will,
this is interesting. So it's been, I've been neck down trying to get builds to work, um,
and try and replicate that other server on the new server. I've been taking a bunch of my time.
I think we're pretty much over the humps now. It's good. There's a different, all kinds of
little things that were different. I had to deal with, I wrote this really cool, uh,
PowerShell script. Oh God. I want to get into this. Um, I want, I want to, I want to explain
why, but it actually reads, this is, um, pure hack, but I put a big smile on my face when
it worked. Um, I had to create a security group, uh, V a VSO security group that had
everybody on the team except for a few. So, so I had a blacklist, a blacklist and I give
deny access on one of the branches to that list that doesn't include to the people. So they're
on cause deny overrides and now I'm explaining everything anyway. So I wrote this thing that
reads from, uh, uh, active directory and gets the members of the distribution list, uh, of the
full team takes the distribution list that has the people that are white listed,
removes those from that list and then writes the resultant list to a VSO security group.
So I've been using a lot of PowerShell. So I spent fun to learn that just, uh,
new stuff to learn. It's been great. Uh, getting everything working is been a little bit of a
pain, but it's, it's getting there, but taking a ton of my time. So that's what I've been doing
on my pre summer break instead of just, you know, goofing off. But I think we may, it's funny.
Yesterday, uh, I sent mail cause I was actually feeling some anxiety because I have like, I still
have like packing to do, I have a little shopping to do. I have to clean the house. I have to,
actually in the middle of all this before I leave next Wednesday, have to leave town for
a couple of days to go see my dad before I leave. And I'm looking at everything I have to do. And
then the damn tire light came on in the car and going, and there's a bunch of stuff I need
to, my wife gave me to bring back to the store and going crap. What am I going to know what it's
done? So I'm actually, uh, freaking out a little bit, which is not my normal thing.
So yesterday I, uh, I sent mail to our, our dev director. I said, look, I'm about throwing the
towel. Here's where we are. These things aren't working yet. Um, I'm, I'll send you a status
later tonight. And it was funny, just the act of me sending that mail saying that I'm freaked out.
So we're going to throw in the towel. And the only thing stopped me from throwing in the towel
is I just feel bad about now I have to transfer the remaining work to somebody else and have them
babysit the move and make sure that the else goes crazy. Yep. So I was feeling bad, but as soon as
at the mail with the option that, Hey, I'm going to not worry about this anymore. Um,
the anxiety went away and made a little more progress. And as of last night, um,
it looks like we're back on track to make them to get it done this weekend.
It was a little bit of babysitting tech support, uh, early next week. And then we should be good
to go, but it's been crazy. Has he giving you someone to hand off to? Uh, not directly,
but, um, we both know who it is. So anyway, this project, I thought I'll just, that'll be
fantastic stuff. I'll do, I'll learn. It'll be fun. It's been a great learning experience,
a little bit of high stress work. And, uh, but it's, I think it's all under control. I haven't
checked my mail in the last, since I've been on this 10 minute diatribes.
But crazy. Anyway.
Yeah. It's one of those things. So if, if you were an employee on my team and you sent me that message,
you would have two other people to help you immediately because I, I, I do not like things
not done before vacation. Cause one of the things that I'm a big believer in is that ticket is
always flowing forward. And we, every ticket on, on my team's board has to be done in two weeks or
less. And so if it's not done, or it's not risk of being done, then I need to get other people
aboard. Cause I do want you to go on your vacation and, and not have to look at email.
Um, and I want the project to continue going forward. Yeah. I think there's this, this
weird feeling that, Oh, Alan has it under control. Cause I usually do even when I, but then when I
don't, that they don't believe me. Yeah. You kind of got this, um, you're, you're the,
the boy who never cries wolf. Maybe I can do it myself.
So one thing I forgot to mention, um, I forgot the punch line and all this. So we use a couple
of our repos use, uh, get sub modules. Don't I'll explain it to you later. Anyway. Um, they're
really, they behave really frequently and moving them is interesting because, uh, that there's a parent
module contains this pointer to the sub module and you have to update it without really updating it.
And it's crazy, but, um, so I searched, I searched the web on, you know, get sub modules,
a lot of great questions and answers on, um, PowerShell command. No, get some sub
modules are part of get, um, but there are, I came across when I searched for get sub modules.
If you do it, you'll see all kinds of articles on why get sub modules are evil, you know,
why our company doesn't use get sub modules. And I know I didn't read, I didn't have time
to read the articles, but I know why they write them. So how many of our five listeners
are using it? I don't know. Okay. They've all shut off now. So, so Brett, I'm going to ask you this
first. Maybe I'll answer it afterwards, but I'm going to be gone from next Wednesday until
sometime after the first of September, like September 4th, 5th. I can't remember. Um,
a lot of changes going on lately. What does the world look like? Do you think what, what,
when Alan comes back to work after ignoring work for two months,
or ignoring pretty much software world for two months, when I come back, what are some things
I go, wow, that change really happened fast. It's a big change that they left. Or do you think it
will be, it's only two months. It'll be all the same. It's, it's, it's interesting. When I,
when I try to think through it, there is a, um, we, we often talk about these, these, uh,
two divisions in our company, uh, both primarily execution focused. I think when you come back,
one of them will have flipped the switch. And I think right in that time, uh, you'll, you'll
come back right in the, the crazy time where everyone's running around like headless chickens
going, ah, they just did this. I don't know why. Right. So there'll be a lot of, uh, podcasts
fodder around the question why it again. Yeah. So you should start building up a,
just take a little like one note, no putter and notepad and, and just, uh,
keep a long list. We'll prioritize in September. I'm thinking, I'm thinking we could just print
out the transcript of episode two or three or whatever it was, and then just read it. But we
could do it like with, with pirate or British accents or something and just repeat it all over
again. That's not even funny, but, uh, it kind of reminds me of you seen, um, uh, is it Fallon?
Who has the people read their, read the mean tweets about them? Oh, that's, um, Kimmel. Kimmel.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, we could just, if you would all our five listeners, if you'd all just
tweet mean things about us, Brent and I will read them. Absolutely. Yeah. Um, the one thing though,
that, that was interesting. I ended up, um, talking with a few folks from your old neck of the woods,
also mine, the Xbox org. Oh yeah. And, um, the most common question that I've been getting
is, yeah, windows isn't really going to go with this for a while, right? So we're, we're protected.
And I'm like, okay, first off, this concept of protected kind of bothers me. You really,
you shouldn't be, you should be diving all in and forcing through this quote unquote wall of
having spent two years in Xbox. Um, there is, uh, a strong culture of, and this is, you know,
whether it's good or bad, it is up for debate, but a strong culture of we're different. So leave
us alone. Yes. We're not like you to leave us alone. Right. And the thing I, I burst their bubble on.
I'm like, no, uh, windows windows core. Yeah. They'll take, oh, they won't be on this. Um,
when you come back, not yet, but there will be a lot of teams. What is the name of that group now?
Asg, osg. What's the whole windows division? Oh, osg. There will be a large number of teams within
that division that will have executed this. And what's this again? The, the, the culture
changes that are happening, the stuff that we listed off, I don't, I don't think it'll happen.
I think osg will be the, honestly, the last last organization to really figure this out.
They'll be the last to finish, but there will, there, there are already, um, teams within osg
that are starting as best as I can tell is that they're, they're going through the teams where
it seems like there's little risk to, um, for lack of a better, the little risk to the bottom line
by engaging that switch. All right. We'll see. And I see what I told those guys is I, I see no,
I see nothing about Xbox that will insulate them from this. No, I don't see that either,
but I, I just, I think we can go back and forth on this. But when I come back,
my hunch is, and maybe I'm just feeling cynical is that I will see lots of groups of big changes
and going on and I will see little change in, uh, osg outside of my, our team were,
we're different. We're insulated. No, uh, we're under the osg umbrella, but we're not like
anything there, which I think say that I don't know if that keeps us protected, but we are,
we may make some huge, big changes. I could, I could totally see coming back in two months
and having engineering managers and engineering teams versus a slight discipline ownership that
we have. I have just hit my first conversation with a, uh, a leader from, from that group
who, who communicated to me that the discussions around the, the quality org that, that was formed
up six, nine months ago, right? Um, doing the next step of the change. So in a nutshell, uh,
kind of getting rid of the quality orgs. Yeah, it's interesting. So, um, when we set up our
quality org, our test org, we, one thing we did, which is, I can't remember why we did it,
but I'm happy we did it is we don't have, um, our quality org does different, we don't do any
automated testing. We're doing some instrumentation analysis, end to end, you know, uh, long tests,
which I guess could be automation, but more stress and load, uh, making sure we have deployment
systems, testing, production, et cetera. Our dev org is set up. We have, uh, dev managers who own
functional parts of the product. I won't go into all the pieces, but they own functional pieces.
And we have our, our quality managers own some scenario areas or, or, or data analysis. What that
means is there's no peer in the old world. There was a dev manager and they had a matching test
manager, right? And, and, you know, they knew who to go, Hey, help me test this. Our org is set
up now where that doesn't exist. And it's fine because our devs are writing all the functional
tests and we're looking at things from a bigger picture. But I thought about this,
and the fact that we don't line up at all means you could just as well call us an engineering team
and give us all one title or, or, or whatever, and then run it the same way. That's exactly.
So that's so we are, we're, we're, we're basically an engineering team with titles in these loose
walls. It's a nice, I realized it wasn't planned this way, but it's a nice, we're set up well for
a transition. I mean, you could come in tomorrow and say, you know what everybody you're going to
keep on doing the same thing, but it doesn't make sense to give us all different titles and to,
and to set up any sort of artificial walls organizationally. We're going to shift some
leadership positions around to make it make sense, but keep doing the same work. But
we're going to change. We're just going to change some trivial bits around the outside.
Yes and no. I mean, if you guys have already formed up that you're sort of,
so these, these, these other engineering orgs, the orgs that you call the dev orgs today, right?
Are they your customers? Are they your partners? How do they interact with your team?
We do different work. Entirely different work.
Not we're all working on software. And, and the same software, right? Well, maybe. And I
guess the difference is we're working mostly on the meta software, working on, we're working
on software that tells us about the product. They're working on the actual implementation of the product.
Okay. So you're producing a bunch of knowledge about the product. Who takes action on that
knowledge? I'm thinking it depends on the knowledge. Right. And I imagine a non-trivial
amount of that is the actual dev org. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Right. So they're essentially your
customers. I don't like that statement. Too bad. All right. Go on. No, why do you not like that
statement? You would rather view yourself as isolated from them? No, I don't want to be isolated
from them. I don't know if when we're better together, we're one Microsoft. That's a great
cliche, but actions is what lines that up and makes it true. Them being our customers,
is like one step away from saying we're service providers for the team. And that even bristles
my hair a little bit farther. Okay. But your hair bristling doesn't make it not true. Maybe,
maybe. Anyway, you have a point buried under your questioning, so get to it.
I may have gone into the weeds. One of the, so that's exactly how my team is organized now.
So what you would call the quality org, I kind of frame it as sort of the systems org, but not
systems as in the BS system test team that we used to have 15 years ago, but more of sort of
the system end to end where the guys whose job it is figure out how everything integrates in terms of
the, the behavior of the system and the behavior of the customer. And,
but so we're also producing a lot of knowledge, but the whole point of that knowledge production
is it has to be produced in a timely enough fashion along with the correct actions so that
the correct actions can be taken, which, which basically in my view makes us one of the most
critical pieces of the whole division. Cause you have a whole bunch of people,
generally focused on getting their own stuff done, right? Their, their, their expertise is,
I know how to build this streaming engine as an example, right? And not necessarily have the,
there's this term called cognitive limitations. Humans, unfortunately are only able to remember
and number of things in that N is very finite and mine's right around three.
The, so when they're knee deep in their code, they're thinking about their bugs and they're
thinking about their definition of done around this, this new code quality and whatever test
cases they need to be done or need to be done, but they're not necessarily thinking through,
okay, once this is done, how do I prove that this has added any value? How do I fail fast?
How do I stop? How do I enhance the value that, that my code's doing? How do I stop it?
How do I make sure that what I just did didn't integrate or didn't fail to integrate with that
team that, that is in an entire different building that I hardly ever talked to, right?
That's where you sort of need this, this, I don't even like calling it the quality team,
but that's how you frame it. That's, that's the value proposition.
I didn't make the call. Yeah. I liked calling it the quality team. The, the, the problem is
we're still not focused on actual quality. There's still this big battle that quality means bugs.
And I'm really looking forward to the day that that, that definition dies.
A lot of people put air quotes, I put an air quotes up here on the podcast,
but air quotes around quality team. Well, the quality team does blah, blah, blah. And, uh,
I think that's one of the problems without, not just the name, couldn't call it quality or test
or whatever, whatever what you do. But one of the problems in giving, having separate teams
to work on the same software in different angles causes a sort of air quotes to go
around there in that mystery. Yeah. And, and momentum will move in the direction that people
are used to unless there's something that, that triggers that change. So when you, when you frame
yourself as a quality team or you staff up something like this, as that says, no, we're
an engineering team, but 90% of your org is X test. So aren't you just another test team? No,
we are another engineering team. Right. Um, well, and just going back to my original story, this is,
I, I doubt it's something that's typical for that's something that a typical tester would go do.
The build stuff to go, to go fix up the, the source control move and the build stuff. I
don't know if a tester would typically do that. I don't think it matters on,
and nobody on our team had any trust issues made doing that. I said, Hey,
I'm going to give you guys your time back. I'm going to go take care of this.
There was no, uh, well you're just from the quality or are you sure you know how to do this?
It's like, okay, I'll figure it out. I almost did anyway.
You're special. I don't know. I don't know that I'm special. I think we,
I think it just kind of comes back to when you have a team of generalizing specialists,
specializing generalists, have you, however you want to view it, people with some,
some tree shape, T shape personas wide with some depth. Oh, thanks.
Don't worry. He said, what people should be comfortable filling in and picking up pieces
where they need to, people should look for places that can provide value and then do the work.
Yeah. Right. No. So one of the speeches that I've been given a lot lately is, is, um,
particularly when we did this reorg, um, because there's a larger number of people who are in,
in this new org that came from, from test. Oh, and this is, this is something that's cool.
Should I put some air quotes around that? Yeah. Sarcasm factor 12.7. I'm on a new V team.
Oh, I hate it. Okay. I'm not going to go to the V team thing. Tell me about your new V team.
We talked about the V team. You'll even like the title of the team. I'm on the combined
engineering V team. You know, I hate that. You know, I think that term is just engineering.
And you know why I'm on it because I'm just to piss me off. No. So it's basically, if you look
at the attendees of this combined engineering team, it's mostly people who came from dev.
I'm the only one on that list who has ever actually worked in a combined engineering
environment and they out, they outnumber me like eight to one. And I'm like, oh yeah,
this is, so it's going to be this combined engineering topic. It's going to be a V team
and a bunch of people who believe they know what they're talking about. And I'm going to be
outvoted. I'm like, this will be nothing but glorious, fun, and exciting. You know,
I got to tell you, if I got an opportunity, it is critical though, if I got an opportunity
to be in your shoes, I would take it 10 out of 10 times. I do that to be like the guy
in the room full of people who are good because it's such an easy battle to win. How so?
To me, the done right and engineering team is very efficient way to work. And I think it's a way to
get people keep the whole team happy about what they're doing. Because you can do that orchestration
of leveraging people's passions and make sure people doing what and looking for people who
can find out what needs to get done and provide value. So I think done right, the done, you
actually even done more than half right, but close to right. Even if you mess up a few things,
the value shows itself so quickly that you win people over. I know I would get people,
even with those those naysayers in the room saying, well, I could just try this. Let's talk
about this and talk about and I could find stories and anecdotes from the past about some
back and forth things. I think I could I feel confident that I could influence that group. And
it would be a fun exercise to be in because I'm, I'm so enamored. I'm so something with the,
the data and experiences around, around that move, that I think I could win over that group,
no matter how pissed off and stodgy and they will maybe I can, I can stall it for two months and
invite you as a as a as a my, my outside observer, my normal internal consulting fees.
Yeah, the the the there are a few people who I would classify on that list that the
very open minded. There's there's others who I have found kind of fall back to the whole, hey,
I've been doing this for 20 years. I know what I'm talking about. Right. My head just went,
is because you've been doing this for 20 years that you don't know what you're talking about.
Yeah, but that's not what I'd actually say out loud. I we have a, we have a lot of people that
have been doing this for 20 years. And guess what? The world has changed in the last 20
years. The world has changed in the last year. I am sure that that it'll it'll just be fine.
It's the just to be clear. It's for me, it's it's a it's another cat hurting exercise that I'm not
all excited about. Hey, so speaking of all this engineering teams and moves away from test teams
and quality teams. Yeah, I've been the chair of this community, this community at Microsoft for
sort of higher level testers at Microsoft. We call it the quality and test experts community
as an engineering. I've been doing it for about five years. No, it's quality and test experts
community. So I've been the chair of that for about five years. And this other group,
only five years, I think so. It's a group. We've been around for six, maybe six years.
Actually, James Whitaker was the first chair for about six months. Then he went to work for
some other company that paid him a buttload of money. Yeah. And then I took over when he left.
So anyway, we feels like it's been that T in there is going to go away. Just gone. It's just gone. And
we don't have a good acronym for our community yet, but we've we're going to rebrand the community
and reboot the community this summer to while I'm gone. I've already written up the the mails on
this for to be sent by someone else. But we are going to get rid of QTech and from the ashes
emerge a community of still senior people, engineering leaders, whether they're managers or
not, who are interested in quality discussions. So we want to make the community more open to people
not mostly not in test, but not from test backgrounds and kind of reframe a little bit
of what the community is doing and how kind of things we talk about. So imagine you have this
group talking about combined engineering of eight people, but I'm sure there's some case studies
that I'm sure there's one of these groups of eight people talking about this in about 25 different
teams at Microsoft. We can those sorts of things are things we can learn from each other on. And
my my view around community is it isn't just a distribution list. In fact, we don't use ours at
all. The QTech one? No, it's basically hey. My goal with the community is just to provide
people a method of discovering what they don't know they don't know. So and they do that by one
through the talking heads at our events or the panel discussions or the group discussions we have,
but mainly through meeting other members and other teams and making those connections and
finding ways to use those connections to help them with their job. We've had tons of success
stories in that area. And so by branding it as sort of a quality community, I hate I almost
hate using the Q word there, but I got to figure out a better name. Yeah, and I'll I'll help you
with that. Although you and I were trying to do that with the other. I know. Yeah. Because so
the thoughts that came into my mind, right? First and foremost, it's easy to change that T
to telemetry. No, that's not. And I know you know this. So I'm thinking you're going a different
direction. Let me can gentecize. I'm worried. I mentioned this before that the former testers
at Microsoft are now over indexing on how to get instrumentation in the code and get telemetry back
and analyze that like that's their new sole purpose and job. And then someone asked me
going back another step will pop balls off the stack. The other day, someone asked me about the
changes and what they meant. And do I you know, I don't know what I do as a as a quality person
anymore. And what I told them was this. I said, look, whatever it was 10, 12 years ago,
Microsoft decided they were going to hire SD T's people testers who could code. It wasn't rolled
out. Well, we're hiring Estes and the mental model that went to that is we want to hire people who
can write automation. And we hired a bunch of people who could write a bunch of automation.
Then we ended up with a bunch of tests that didn't do crap and a bunch of tests that failed
bad to investigate. And we ended up exactly what we looked for. We looked people who could
write a bunch of automation and that's what we got. But want to reframe that. I want to go back to
my time machine and say, we want to hire testers who know how to solve problems with code.
That's always been my message. Yes. Well, you and I, yeah, you're especially special. So if you
go fast forward to now, I'm thinking you can just fix this automation thing just by saying
we want people who can write high ROI automation. Don't get ROI. I can't even measure that.
What's the ROI? The ROI. So anyway, sure you can. Anyway, shut up. You can measure everything. Shut up.
You have the book. The problem, the problem today is the same. We still need, we still have quality
folks, testers, people, whatever. We still need people who can solve problems with code. The
problems you're solving, we're saying the problem is different now. The problem is we want to know
how customers use the product. The problem is that we want to know right away if our service
is failing so we can roll back or make a decision. Problems we're solving with code.
The last thing I think we need is a software design engineer in telemetry.
Or thousands of them. Yes, we need to know how to use that data better. And that's a problem
we need to solve with code. But I worry, you know, the problem, so what are, what we look for
testers to do, these big systems thinkers, these quality people, people who are quality or test
specialists on an engineering team. They're big systems thinkers. They know how to look at the
big picture and figure out what the problems are and what needs to be solved. And they know when to
use code, when to use code, whether it's PowerShell or SQL or C sharp or a native service or whatever
to solve that problem. That's what we need. It's what we've always needed. So we always needed
that role to do. But I think as a company, be very careful not to make the same mistake
we made hiring people who would write 100,000 test cases, automated test cases, and have
approached our new emphasis on instrumentation and telemetry with that same over indexed
slightly in the wrong direction approach. As you were talking, because I was been puzzling in my
head, what are the sort of the people that you would want to let's imagine that you came up with
the right name and you send out the announcement, like, who are the people you would want to
attract and inform a new community around. And as I heard you talking, it seemed almost like
how to fail fast with, again, a high ROI. It's about quality. Great, we can measure.
It's not going to be a value for us to be measuring quality of things two years ago.
Correct. There's also sort of a reframing of what quality is, which in my view is around customer
value. And the other one would be how do we determine faster that the direction we're
going is in the weeds and we need to go in a new direction. In addition to that, there's two other
communities that are kind of aligned to that. There's the data science community of which
I've never really participated in. And then there's the data driven engineering community,
which is supposed to be a lot more applied scientists, at least as I think about it.
I am on the leadership team on that one, but I have been a poor member of that leadership team.
I've gone, I think, to meetings and to communities. I probably need to open my seat for someone who
will be a bit more active on that. I'm a lot more active on QTech because what my passion is,
right now, is help leading the change around these soon to be orphaned folks and get them into
the right positions. Could this be, we talked a lot last time, sort of the distinction between
data science and data analyst. Could this be sort of an applied data analyst? Could this be
a community where we say, quit doing that, do this? Maybe. What I want to do is, there's been
a lot of overlap between, and some of it purposeful, but as you're making these shifts,
a lot of overlap between the old quality and testing community and the data driven,
engineering community. What I wanted to provide was a way to provide some more separation
between the purpose and the value of those communities.
Maybe this is the T, so you were just talking about a T person?
Yes. These other communities are kind of the vertical line.
Yes. The data driven community is, it's interesting. That community, from my view into it,
is very deep. Their events are talking heads for a big chunk of the time. It's very little networking.
Yeah. The topics are very data science focused, very stats focused, and I think what's missing is
the applicability. Maybe what this is, actually, maybe what this is, is on quality,
maybe your community broker. Perhaps. A little bit, I want to wait and see how it's going to grow.
We had some discussion about adding extra, do we need more people on the leadership team,
different people on the leadership team? What we decided was, it's going to be better right now.
Let's rebrand the community, have a little soft relaunch, and let's see what happens,
see how it forms. My goal stays the same. I want to provide a method for people of this
community to discover what they don't know they don't know. I want to talk about some combined
engineering or engineering teams is a good thing. This is an improvement, a good topic
for discussion because it's an improvement the way we engineer, the way we make higher quality
software. I can't speak. We'll have topics like that. We do a lot more discussion, roundtables,
and panels. In fact, the soft launch event is going to be a barbecue this summer where
people are just going to eat and hang out. How is the Munch and Mingle going?
Those are for those outside. Those are four or five people show up. Not that exciting.
Is it just a chat and talk about stuff? Yeah. Pretty much, I'll call it a soft lean coffee.
I don't always show up so I can't impose the lean coffee principles on them, but it usually ends up
working like that. All right. Hey, we're about out of time. This is the last time that Brent and I
will talk to you. Brent may decide to come steal my equipment on my office and record some on his
own. I don't think he will. Probably not. Probably not. But we're taking a break,
and we'll be back very early in September with all kinds of fun stories to share.
Yeah. By that time, we'll have forgotten what number we're on.
That will be on number 10. Double digits when you come back.
I know. It's that exciting. I guess I've got to say one thing in passing is I've been massively
busy, but I did take three hours off on Tuesday to watch a very exciting... I lost about 10 years
of my life watching the US-Belgium World Cup match. Sad ending. I'm still not quite over it
yet. I was so happy that the US played in the last game of the round of 16. There were no games
yesterday, and I needed that. I could not watch. I would not have been able to watch soccer yesterday.
I needed a break. So who are you cheering for now?
Well, my flight goes out in between the last semi-final and the final. So I would
love to be watching France in the final from France.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
So I'm cheering hard for France. It looked pretty good for a team that barely qualified.
So did Mexico for another team that barely qualified. I'm sadly lost to Netherlands.
Yeah.
So it's just been a great world cup.
So I grew up in Southern California, and currently the teams I was hoping for USA or Mexico.
Mexico. Both of those are out. So I'm going with the Vatos. So Costa Rica or Colombia.
I always support Colombia's out. But I always support the CONCACAF teams. And the only one
left now is Costa Rica.
And I'm pretty sure I'm currently anti-Netherlands.
Oh, yeah. Because Robin... Because I know Robin will never listen to this podcast. But yes,
that was a penalty in the last play. But do you have to freaking embellish so much,
you Hollywood actor, DB?
Oh, yeah. No kidding.
Yeah. It makes me not like your whole team because you play like that.
What do you think about that?
All right. On that note, have a great vacation.
Hey, everybody.
I will. And happy summer to all of you. I will probably not think of you at all. But
I shouldn't have told you that. I will. You'll be in my heart and head forever.
Will you be blogging?
No. I'm barely going to check email. I'm setting up like really strict rules that I have some
personal emails come to my email that I want to check on. But everything else is going to the
folder that I'll delete. And my UF message is going to say that I'm probably going to delete
your message. So just send it again in September. I am going to be off the grid as much as possible.
Jimmy crack corn and Alan does not care. Yes. All right. All right. Thanks, everybody.
Thank you, guys.